.\" **************************************************************************
.\" *                                  _   _ ____  _
.\" *  Project                     ___| | | |  _ \| |
.\" *                             / __| | | | |_) | |
.\" *                            | (__| |_| |  _ <| |___
.\" *                             \___|\___/|_| \_\_____|
.\" *
.\" * Copyright (C) 1998 - 2022, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>, et al.
.\" *
.\" * This software is licensed as described in the file COPYING, which
.\" * you should have received as part of this distribution. The terms
.\" * are also available at https://curl.se/docs/copyright.html.
.\" *
.\" * You may opt to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute and/or sell
.\" * copies of the Software, and permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" * furnished to do so, under the terms of the COPYING file.
.\" *
.\" * This software is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
.\" * KIND, either express or implied.
.\" *
.\" * SPDX-License-Identifier: curl
.\" *
.\" **************************************************************************
.\"
.TH CURLOPT_EXPECTEDFILESIZE 3 "1 Nov 2022" "libcurl 7.86.1" "curl_easy_setopt options"
.SH NAME
CURLOPT_EXPECTEDFILESIZE \- maximum file size allowed to download
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <curl/curl.h>

CURLcode curl_easy_setopt(CURL *handle, CURLOPT_EXPECTEDFILESIZE,
                          curl_off_t size);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Pass a curl_off_t as parameter. This allows you to specify the expected
\fIsize\fP (in bytes) of a file to download to enable progress and remaining time estimation with the progress bar, when Content-Length is not provided by the response. If Content-Length is provided, this parameter is ignored unless \fICURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH(3)\fP is also specified.

.SH DEFAULT
None
.SH PROTOCOLS
FTP, HTTP and MQTT
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
CURL *curl = curl_easy_init();
if(curl) {
  CURLcode ret;
  curl_off_t expected = 2000;
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_URL, "https://example.com/");
  /* we know the server is silly, ignore content-length */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_IGNORE_CONTENT_LENGTH, 1L);
  /* inform the progress bar of our expected size */
  curl_easy_setopt(curl, CURLOPT_EXPECTEDFILESIZE, expected);
  ret = curl_easy_perform(curl);
}
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
Added in 7.11.0
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns CURLE_OK if the option is supported, and CURLE_UNKNOWN_OPTION if not.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR CURLOPT_MAXFILESIZE "(3), " CURLOPT_MAX_RECV_SPEED_LARGE "(3), "
